# Heatmap_Matriz_Covarianza_DoA
Creación de mapas de calor en escala de grises para la estimación del DoA
# SCIENTIFIC COMPUTING

Std. Juan David Rojas Usuga

# Covariance Matrix in Direction of Arrival (DOA)
## Theoretical background:

Due to the digital transformation we are currently experiencing, the increase in data volumes and coverage, the challenges for 5G mobile networks are the increase in the number and variety of connected devices, the increase in user traffic, security and interference mitigation (Pastorino, 2005) in order to improve key performance indicators (KPIs) such as user throughput, accessibility, spectral efficiency, traffic capacity per area and density. As a primary option, new sites are added to address issues such as coverage, increasing connection capacity and increasing throughput per user, but at the same time new challenges arise in terms of signal interference, power consumption and spectrum saturation.

To help with these 5G problems, research has been carried out on beamforming techniques (Brilhante et al., 2023), which allow the generation of beams with main lobes at a desired angle, such as mobile phone users (UE), and generate nulls in the direction of interfering signals. In order to know where a transmitter is located, techniques for estimating the direction of arrival (DOA) have been researched, using methods such as sum and delay (Bartlett) and minimum variance with least distortion (Capon), which do not require knowledge of signal statistics, but give values that are different from the real value compared to the most popular techniques, such as multiple signal classification (MUSIC) and rotation invariance (ESPRIT), which provide an unbiased estimate of the incoming signals, but generally have a high degree of computational complexity, since accurate eigenvector estimation of both the signal subspace and the noise subspace is required (Chen and Gong, 2020).

Artificial Intelligence (AI) has become a valuable tool in several challenging domains and is being explored by researchers as a promising option to address practical problems in DoA prediction. These deep learning (DL) approaches outperform all conventional DOA estimation methods in terms of accuracy, making them a fundamental option in signal processing for advanced DOA estimation (Liu et al. 2018). Several models for DOA estimation using deep neural network (DNN) and Convolutional neural network (CNN) have been presented. Here, the DOA estimation task can be addressed by formulating classification (Fang et al., 2021; Z.-M. Liu et al., 2018) and regression (Cong et al., 2021) problems. In this method, the neural network processes a covariance matrix of the antenna outputs, which includes mutual coupling effects, to subsequently predict the DoA.  It should be noted that in (Fang et al., 2022) they process the covariance matrix as an image and then use a generative antagonistic network (GAN) to correct imperfections in the correlation matrix. The CNN is trained to perform regression by learning to map direction images, which are transformations of the spatial covariance matrix of the received signals, to the angular directions of the signal sources. In (Harkouss, 2021).

As can be seen the covariance matrix is a fundamental concept in signal processing and plays a fundamental role in DoA estimation to analyze the characteristics of the signals received by an array of antennas. In DoA estimation using CNN or DNN, the covariance matrix needs to be taken to a heat map image, as shown below.
